Lockdown Productivity & too much hobby gubbings 

I was sent home in late March from work due to the lockdown in the UK and was furloughed, so with nothing to do I decided to catch up on some miniature painting. I normally managed to squeeze an evening in the week for painting and an afternoon during the weekend. This gives me a few good hours painting each week to slowly plough through the grey army or should I say armies. I like most in the hobby probably have too much squirreled away in cupboards and boxes, we all kind know or at least we tell ourselves we know how much we have, but I suspect thinking we know and actually knowing are two different things. I was aware I had quite a lot of miniatures, but I wasn’t really sure how much I had. The problem is that like most hobbyists they’re hidden away in boxes, out of sight out of mind. I didn’t really pay attention to how much I had until lockdown. Now if you’re sat there thinking why lockdown, well that’s because my productivity in painting miniatures increased dramatically. I had the spare time to plough through a tone of miniatures between March 23rd and July 31st I managed to get roughly 180 miniatures painted, which also included some terrain built and painted. That’s generally a lot more than I’d probably paint in a year, I’d be happy to go through half that in a year. I placed all the painted miniatures together for a photo shoot, and it dawned on me that even though I’d painted a colossus amount on miniatures I’d hardly put a dent into the grey army. That’s when I realized I had way too much stashed away in boxes. This prompted me to actually get all my unpainted miniatures out and see how much I actually had. I took out all the wargaming miniatures, it was far too many. I was never going to get all those painted, and all the miniatures in the board games I had. I realized this was ridiculous situation, so I started going through what I had and making some hard decisions about what I should keep and which ones I should get rid of. This also helped me to hone down which projects I wanted to continue and which ones I should stop. It also allowed to narrow down which systems, periods and games I wanted to actually play and paint minis for. There’s no point keeping stuff if you’re never likely to ever get around to painting or playing with it. They’re just gathering dust and taking up valuable real estate in my hobby room, so a cull was/is planned. First, I looked at all the moderns I have, which consists of Chinese PLA, US Special Forces, some Russians and PMC’s. I backed the Empress Miniatures kickstarter to get the PLA, so I have quite a lot of them, but I don’t really need that many. I could probably get away with about 12 for most of the games I’ll be playing. So that was one chunk to sell, next I looked at all the metal miniatures I had, and a lot were random fantasy minis. I picked out the few choice ones I liked and will cull the rest, I don’t really play a lot of fantasy and most of the games I do play are ones like Frostgrave that don’t require a high model count. The one area I haven’t culled yet are my 40K minis, now I don’t have a lot, the small amount of Space Marines I have are painted bar a couple. I also have a small amount of Tyranids that are painted apart from one brood lord. I do have a rather large collection of Eldar which are unpainted, but I’m not ready to cull any until I’ve tried the latest version of the rules. If I like the new rules, then I’ll keep what I have if not I’ll cull them down, so I have just enough to play Kill Team. Likewise, I decided to cut down on my Age of Sigmar miniatures, I don’t play AoS so there’s no point in keeping them. I only play Warcry and occasionally Shadespire/Underworlds, which I have a few warbands for. I will paint these up, but I won’t be purchasing any more in the future. I’ll do the same with Blood Bowl, I have a couple of teams waiting to be painted so I’ll get those finished and I may buy one other team, along with the new rules when they’re released. My Flames of War armies are nearly finished, the Germans are complete. I managed to get the Germans all painted during Lockdown, so I just have the US to finish. I’ve added some new units to the US which will need building and painting, but that project will be complete once that’s done. Bolt Action is the sticking point, I have quite a lot that’s unpainted and some that also need building. I currently have enough infantry for the US army, likewise I have enough vehicles for my German force, and enough infantry for my SAS. I just need to pick up a tank for the Americans and a couple of attack jeeps for the Brits. My Chinese need more troops, but I’m not in any rush to get those yet, as I’ll try and finish the US infantry first. Whilst going through this process I begun to realize that as hobbyist we probably have a problem with hoarding, yet don’t hoard any where else in our lives, well I don’t. I don’t buy randomly with other items, yet I do with hobby stuff. I’ll see a miniature and think ooo that looks nice and before I even thought about whether I need it or not I’ve bought the bloody thing. So, going forward I plan to be more conscious about what items I purchase for my hobby. This should be helped by narrowing down which games I plan to play, because if a miniature can’t be used in any of the games, I play then there’s no need to purchase it. It’s been quite a cathartic experience going through all my hobby bits and bobs and really forcing myself to make decisions on which items I’ll actually paint and use. It was also great for forcing me to make decisions regarding which games and rules I’ll actually play, this should also help me to focus more on those games, rather than flitting from one thing to another and never really getting to grips with anything. I should also have going forward fewer if any half-finished projects, I’m hoping this will help me to actually finish some of the projects I’ve started.


﻿Red paint poured in, painted on Kenan Fountain in downtown Wilmington 

John Staton   | Wilmington StarNews In what appears to be the second act of vandalism downtown in two days, someone poured red paint in Wilmington's Kenan Fountain late Wednesday or early Thursday and painted "murderer" and other words on the fountain. It comes one day after someone spattered red paint along the base of the pedestal of the miniature Statue of Liberty that stands outside Thalian/City Hall downtown. Wilmington Police Department spokesperson Jessica Williams said the WPD's STING Center -- Situational Tactics &amp; Intelligence Nexus Group -- "is looking into" the matter "We don’t have any info we can share at this time," WIlliams wrote in an email. No charges have has been filed in either incident. More: Wilmington's Curbside Cinema drive-in announces 5 new movies for October More: Big changes in store for Wilmington’s Cucalorus fest in 2020 More: New drive-in movie series to start in downtown Wilmington Mark Stuart, who works for the city of Wilmington helping to maintain buildings and facilities, said he was walking his dog by the fountain at Fifth Avenue and Market Street around 6 a.m. Thursday when he noticed that someone had painted "murderer," "1898" and "racist" on the fountain in red paint. Stuart said he immediately went to shut off the fountain when he noticed that someone had poured red latex paint inside of it. City crews quickly got to work cleaning it up, and the damage was barely noticeable by noon. Some red paint is still visible on stone benches in Kenan Plaza, which surrounds the fountain, and on a plaque on the fountain itself. A decorative wall in the plaza on the east side of the fountain had been knocked down, but it's not clear how that damage was done. The fountain was given to the city of Wilmington in 1921 by William Rand Kenan Jr. in honor of his parents, Captain William Rand Kenan and Mary Hargrave Kenan. William Rand Kenan led a white supremacist militia that shot multiple Blacks as part of the Wilmington massacre and coup of 1898, when white mobs burned Black businesses, killed dozens and forced others to leave town under threat of violence. In 2019, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill covered a plaque at Kenan Memorial Stadium in Chapel Hill honoring the Kenan family with a logo. In 2018, UNC changed the person honored by the stadium's name from William Rand Kenan Sr. to William Rand Kenan Jr. On Wednesday, city of Wilmington spokesperson Jared Patterson said in an email that, despite recent construction at Thalian Hall, "there was not construction activity going on that would have caused" red paint to get on the Statue of Liberty. The Statue of Liberty -- a miniature version of the one in New York City -- has stood near the corner of Princess and North Third streets since 1950, when it was erected by the Boy Scouts of America on the organization's 40th anniversary. The local version is one of dozens of similar statues gifted to cities by the BSA, but one of the few still standing. No one has taken credit for putting red paint on the statue, and it's unclear what the motives were. In other cities, however, statutes of everyone from Christopher Columbus to George Washington and many, many others have been defaced with red paint as a way of indicating that the figures depicted have "blood on their hands." Contact John Staton at 910-343-2343 or John.Staton@StarNewsOnline.com.


﻿Additive manufacturing, rapid tooling give gamers intricate miniatures, fast 

It used to take from 90 to 120 days to move from design to manufactured part for a typical toy, but one company has found a way to manufacture their character figures in "far less time and achieve levels of detail that were difficult if not impossible to obtain in the past." The new miniature character figures from Wyrd (pronounced 'weird') Miniatures debuted at the recent Gen Con, touted as the world's largest gaming show and featured miniatures for its hit character skirmish game "Malifaux". Wyrd and its product design firm, Ghost Studio, relied on the Freeform 3D modeling from Geomagic  to digitally sculpt 40 miniatures for six new box sets. They then used the digital designs as the basis of a streamlined digital manufacturing process that moves from art to production tooling via STL milling. People familiar with stereolithography in additive manufacturing might be familiar with STL, which uses triangular facets that are able to represent just about any freeform shape. STL allows for the creation of the "intense detail" of the micro-features of these characters, which typifies the value of digital sculpting that drives better quality products in an advanced all-digital manufacturing workflow using Geomagic.  Geomagic says it differs from CAD in that it offers specific products to create 3D content from imaging the real world and real people, while also verifying dimensional quality by comparing a master design to as-built products, and simulating touch sensations in digital environments. The move to digital sculpting with Geomagic's Freeform 3D modeling software allowed Wyrd to deliver "exceptional detail that was previously not possible to achieve in metal figurines - detail that exactly reproduces and in some cases exceeds the detail in the original line art, even for intricately detailed miniatures such as Hungering Darkness and the windswept Miss Terious." No-flash family moldsDigital sculpting with Freeform also allowed Wyrd to get to market at least one-third faster and produce the miniatures in plastic, avoiding the approximately 80% increase in the cost of white metal over the past two years. The Freeform 3D design file now serves as the foundation of a streamlined and far more accurate plastic injection manufacturing process. Details are crisper, surface finishes are smoother, and the plastic allows better paint adherence. The precision fit of the molds' core/cavity parting lines all but eliminates the parting line flash that typically appears after molding. The molds are family molds in which all the parts needed to build the character are on a single runner, explained George Sivy, a principle with Ghost Studio, the product design firm that did the production workflow for Wyrd Miniatures, in an interview with PlasticsToday. "We use 4x6 runner configurations or 8x6 runner configurations, and maintain consistency in the runner size to facilitate packaging. These figures within a 6x8 runner configuration typically contain figurines for the Malifaux line. Others we've done have as many as 12 figurines on a runner because the figures are smaller." Razor-sharp parting linesAs most mold manufacturers know, family molds can be tricky to fill, but Sivy noted that the company has the ability to regulate how these cavities fill, to the extent that they can eliminate shrink, swirls and flash. "That literally took us a few years of experimenting with software programs to address the various downstream processes," he said. "We digitally create the mold splits to give us a razor-sharp edge in how they match up. These sharp parting lines eliminate flash." Ghost Studio has invested a lot of effort and energy in engineering and fabricating the molds for Wyrd Miniatures. They've developed a means of fixturing these inserts in the CNC machines to allow for precision machining of the cores and cavities. "For example, one part needed to be altered significantly, but because we've achieved this level of precision, we can weld up cavity that was wrong, mount it on the fixture in the milling machine, and re-cut the cavity without skipping a beat," Sivy said.  "It's nothing magical, but the degree of refinement that has been accomplished means that each step of the process is totally under our control. We've done some pretty incredible stuff." Today, using Geomagic's Freeform, Wyrd is moving from design to finished parts for five characters on one sprue in near-record time. "It's exciting to see how freeform and talented designers are pushing the limits of detail, in ever smaller and smaller formats. Even more compelling is the savings in time that Wyrd Miniatures' work with Ghost Studio was able to realize, by creating molds directly from Freeform's digital files," said Joan Lockhart, vice president of marketing for Geomagic. Wyrd has been able to streamline the process at the warehouse for inspection and quality control, and also realizes cost savings in shipping since the plastic figures - molded using HIPS with some sections molded from ABS - weigh less than the metal products. $1 billion dollar fantasy industryWith an estimated $1 billion worldwide market for fantasy "war games" - where hobbyists assemble and paint miniatures and then play battle games with friends and in tournaments - character detail can make the difference between a game's appeal alongside other boxed sets. "Characters are the soul of the game, which is why we call Malifaux a character-based game. Ghost Studio has helped us bring our characters to life, with detail and dynamic poses that weren't possible for us before," said Nathan Caroland, co-owner of Wyrd Miniatures, based in Kennesaw, GA. "The digital sculpting done with Freeform, when paired with the capabilities of plastic, lets us create miniatures that closely match the details and animation of the original artwork, making our miniatures stand out. Our customers are excited about the new poses and the intricacies of our new releases, and we hope that we're raising the bar for all miniatures by focusing on quality through Freeform."


